---
layout: post
category : feeding
tagline: "First spoons"
tags : [introducing solids, feeding]

---
I started introducing solids when Ivan was four and a half weeks. I did not want to rush into it, but he was showing so much interest in our food that I started experimenting, testing whether his interest for food is strong enough and whether he actually wants to taste and swallow. First he had a peeled organic carrot from the fridge to rub his gums, and he seemed to appreciate it much more than the teether rings we tried giving him before. 

In a couple of days I cooked some organic white rice and creamed it, mixing in a bit of breast milk. I offered Ivan just a small taste of it, maybe a teaspoon. He seemed interested and finished all I offered, but I figured rice has little to offer in terms of vitamins and minerals.

Buckwheat was the next food I offered. Buckwheat is a good source of iron and it is rich in minerals and has fibre. I took some soft cooked buckwheat and pressed it through a fine mesh of a metal tea strainer. It took a while to grind through a couple of teaspoons, but the resulting purée was uniform. I then added expressed breast milk to the purée to make it into a creamy, more liquified consistency. I placed the little bowl with the ready buckwheat purée onto a bed of hot water to keep the food pleasantly warm and offered this to Ivan... Ah! This was love from the first spoon. He finished all there was in the bowl in minutes!

We continued with the buckwheat for a couple of days, with the same result: Ivan would finish all two teaspoons of his buckwheat breakfast in minutes, eagerly opening his mouth to each spoon and immediately looking for the next one. After this success with buckwheat, I cooked up some rice again, and was surprised to see Ivan shutting his mouth after just a couple of spoons and an expression of disappointment on his face. I didn't like the idea of him eating rice anyway, since it would not supply him with iron, so I gladly returned to buckwheat the following day. Ivan rewarded me for that with much excitement about his little bowl of Kasha, taking every spoon with great appetite.

Over the course of the next week I gradually increased the amount of buckwheat until I found the amount that Ivan prefers. He would stop opening his mouth as soon as he feels full. Ivan's perfect buckwheat breakfast consisted of about three teaspoons of buckwheat plus a couple teaspoons of breast milk.

Once the amount was established, I found a better way to prep the buckwheat: I would take about 1/2 cup of cooked buckwheat, add some breast milk, some boiled water and blend it all to a creamy paste with a hand blender. I have [Cuisinart Smart Stick](http://www.amazon.com/Cuisinart-CSB-76BC-SmartStick-200-Watt-Immersion/dp/B000EGA6QI), which I love. It is compact, powerful, and can blend very small portions of food, which is perfect for preparing baby purees.